Assignment and submission state transition (#20438)
microsoftgraph/microsoft-graph-docs: concepts/submissions-states-transition.md

---
title: "States, transitions, and limitations for submissions"

> description: "Learn about the changes in the submission states during the process flow and which education APIs in Microsoft Graph are involved."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: "Learn about the changes in the submission states during the process flow and which education APIs in Microsoft Graph are involved."
```
```suggestion
description: "Learn about the transitions that occur in the submission states throughout the process flow and which education APIs in Microsoft Graph are involved."
```

ms.localizationpriority: medium
author: "cristobal-buenrostro"
ms.prod: "education"
doc_type: conceptualPageType
---

# States, transitions, and limitations for submissions in Microsoft Graph

> Submissions are an important part in the interaction between teachers' and students' actions. This article describes the changes in the submission states during the process flow and which education APIs in Microsoft Graph are involved.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Submissions are an important part in the interaction between teachers' and students' actions. about the changes in the submission states during the process flow and which education APIs in Microsoft Graph are involved.
```

> Assignments and submissions are an important part in the interaction between teachers and students' actions. This article describes the changes in the submission states during the process flow and which education APIs in Microsoft Graph are involved.

Reviewer 2: If you're going to change above from "assignments and submissions" => assignments, this should be changed to submissions as well

Reviewer 3: got it, done

## Submission states and transitions

A submission represents the resources that an individual or group turns in for an assignment. Submissions are owned by an assignment and are automatically created when an assignment is published.

> The status is a read-only property in the submission.  Status changes based on the actions of students and teachers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The status is a read-only property in the submission. It changes based on the actions of students and teachers.
```

| State | Description | REST API call |
|:--|:--|:--|
| Working |	Initial state after the submission is created. | `POST /education/classes/{id}/assignments`<br/>`POST /education/classes/{id}/assignments/{id}/submissions/{id}/unsubmit` |

> | Submitted	| State after student turns in the assignment. | `POST /education/classes/{id}/assignments/{id}/submissions/{id}/submit` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Submitted	| State after the student turns in the assignment. | `POST /education/classes/{id}/assignments/{id}/submissions/{id}/submit` |
```

> | Submitted	| State after student turns in the assignment. | `POST /education/classes/{id}/assignments/{id}/submissions/{id}/submit` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Submitted	| The state after the student turns in the assignment. | `POST /education/classes/{id}/assignments/{id}/submissions/{id}/submit` |
```

> | Returned | State after the teacher has returned an assignment back to the student. | `POST /education/classes/{id}/assignments/{id}/submissions/{id}/return` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Returned | The state after the teacher has returned an assignment to the student. | `POST /education/classes/{id}/assignments/{id}/submissions/{id}/return` |
```

> | Reassigned | State after the teacher has returned the assignment  to the student for revision. | `POST /education/classes/{id}/assignments/{id}/submissions/{id}/reassign` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Reassigned | The state after the teacher has returned the assignment to the student for revision. | `POST /education/classes/{id}/assignments/{id}/submissions/{id}/reassign` |
```

The following diagram shows the state transition flow.

![Submission states transitions diagram](images/states-transitions/diagram-submissions.PNG)

### Submission state transitions based on allowed actions

| Current submission state | New action | New state |
|:--|:--|:--|
| Working |	Turn in	| Submitted |
| Working |	Return for revision	| Reassigned |
| Working |	Return | Returned |
| Submitted	| Undo Turn in | Working |
| Submitted | Return | Returned |
| Submitted | Return for revision | Reassigned |
| Returned | Turn in | Submitted |
| Returned | Return | Returned |
| Returned | Return for revision | Reassigned |
| Reassigned | Turn in | Submitted |
| Reassigned | Return | Returned |
| Reassigned | Return for revision | Reassigned |

> [!NOTE]
> Any action and state transition not listed in the table is not allowed.

### Sync vs. async operations over submissions API calls

The following table lists the API calls that affect the submission state and the operation type.

> In this case, all the calls are asynchronous, which means that the operation starts and another operation can start before the first one finishes. The asynchronous operation performs some background activity, and the caller must be polling to get the result.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case, all the calls are asynchronous, which means the operation starts, and another operation can begin before the first one finishes. The asynchronous operation performs some background activity, and the caller must be polling to get the result.  
```
